# Types in Golang
In the first exercise we printed out a statement. This statement has a certain type; it was a `string`. `Strings` are generally anything that we consider to be written word, or plain English. 

### Basic Types

They are other variable types that come up quite often when you write go code. Here is a list of basic types: 
-`string`: A statement or sentence. This us denoted by a set of quotes `""` or `''`
-`char`: A single letter or character. This is denoted by a set of quotes `''`. example: `'a'`
-`byte`: Hexidecimal values used to express information. example: `bd b2 3d bc 20 e2 8c 98`
-`int`: A positive or negative number that does not contain a decimal. The max value for an `int` can be `1*10^15 - 1` and the min is `-1*10^15 - 1`
-`double`: A positive or negative number that contains up to two decimal points. 
-`float32`: Any number more complex than and `int` or `double`.
-`bool`: Stores a state of condition. It can be either `true` or `false`.
-`error`: `stores error messages that alert the developer to broken code. 

There are many more go types than that, but these are the ones that you will most often be exposed to as a golang developer. 

### Using types

So let's dive back into it. If you nagivate back to [go playgrounds](https://play.golang.org/) to get started. 

Inside the main function go ahead a type the following:
```bash 
var str = "hello world!"
```
This line defines the variable _str_ of type `string`. We can use this variable as any other string. Go ahead and replace the phrase `"Hello, playground!"` with our new variable _str_. Your main function should now look like this:
```bash
func main() {
	var str = "hello world!"
	fmt.Println(str)
}
```
_If your spacing is off you can press the `format` button at the top of the screen. This will give your code standard goang formatting._

Let's run the code and see what happens. Yay it prints. 

What else can we define?

Add  le following variable declarations to your main function:
```bash
var number = 34
var letter = 'a'
var otherNumber = 10.0 
pi := 3.14259
trueOrFalse := false
```
_In Go we do not have to specify what type the variable is declared as. But one a variable is declared a certain type, it cannot be redeclared as another. If you put `number = "34"` below  the first declaration you will get an error._

Notice on the last two lines we used the `:=` in stead of the declarative `var`. In Go the `:=` and the `var` can be used interchangeably when instantiating a variable with a value. You will find that the `:=` is often used in Go as a quick shorthand when declaring a variable.  

We can also declare a variable without giving it a value. If we do not give it a value at the time of declaration we do need to declare the type. 
```bash
var numberApples int
var fruitName string
```
The values can be assigned later on in the code.
```bash
numberApples = 10
fruitName=`tangerine`
```

If you have gotten this far then you are doing really good. You have written a lot of code. Programming is mostly assigning and moving around variables, so you have gotten really good a very important task. Another thing that programmers spend a lot of time doing is fixing errors. Can we get errors from types? yes. Here are some examples. 

```bash 
var numFruit int
numFruit = 1.00
```

```bash 
brother := "Brandon"
brother = 12
```

```bash 
isFamily := true
isFamily = "false"
```

Copy and paste each of these examples into your go playground one and a time. Run each example and see what you get? Can you fix the code so that you do not get an error? 

For more practice with types you can check out the following:
[Tour of Go](https://tour.golang.org/basics/8)


[Continue](/part_1/1.3_functions.md)
