# Types in Golang
In the first exercise we printed out a statement. This statement has a certain type; it was a `string`. `Strings` are generally anything that we consider to be written word, or plain English. 

## Basic Types

They are other variable types that come up quite often when you write go code. Here is a list of basic types: 

*`string`: A statement or sentence. This us denoted by a set of quotes `""` or `''`
*`char`: A single letter or character. This is denoted by a set of quotes `''`. example: `'a'`
*`byte`: Hexidecimal values used to express information. example: `bd b2 3d bc 20 e2 8c 98`
*`int`: A positive or negative number that does not contain a decimal. The max value for an `int` can be `1*10^15 - 1` and the min is `-1*10^15 - 1`
*`double`: A positive or negative number that contains up to two decimal points. 
*`float32`: Any number more complex than and `int` or `double`.
*`bool`: Stores a state of condition. It can be either `true` or `false`.
*`error`: `stores error messages that alert the developer to broken code. 

There are many more go types than that, but these are the ones that you will most often be exposed to as a golang developer. 

### Using types

So let's dive back into it. If you nagivate back to [go playgrounds](https://play.golang.org/) to get started. 

Inside the main function go ahead and type the following:

```go
var str = "hello world!"
```

This line defines the variable _str_ of type `string`. We can use this variable as any other string. Go ahead and replace the phrase `"Hello, playground!"` with our new variable _str_. Your main function should now look like this:

```go
func main() {
	var str = "hello world!"
	fmt.Println(str)
}
```

_If your spacing is off you can press the `format` button at the top of the screen. This will give your code standard golang formatting._

Let's run the code and see what happens. Yay it prints. 

What else can we define?

Add the following variable declarations to your main function:

```go
var number = 34
var letter = 'a'
var otherNumber = 10.0
pi := 3.14259
trueOrFalse := false
```

_In Go we do not have to specify what type the variable is declared as. But once a variable is declared of a certain type, it cannot be redeclared as another. If you put `number = "34"` below  the first declaration you will get an error._

Notice on the last two lines we used the `:=` in stead of the declarative `var`. In Go the `:=` and the `var` can be used interchangeably when instantiating a variable with a value. You will notice that the `:=` is often used in Go as a quick shorthand when declaring a variable.

We can also declare a variable without giving it a value. If we do not give it a value at the time of declaration we do need to declare the type.

```go
var numberApples int
var fruitName string
```

The values can be assigned later on in the code.

```go
numberApples = 10
fruitName=`tangerine`
```

If you have gotten this far then you are doing really good. You have written a lot of code. Programming is mostly assigning and moving around variables, so you have gotten really good a very important task. Another thing that programmers spend a lot of time doing is fixing errors. Can we get errors from types? yes. Here are some examples. 

```go
var numFruit int
numFruit = 1.00
```

```go
brother := "Brandon"
brother = 12
```

```go
isFamily := true
isFamily = "false"
```

Copy and paste each of these examples into your go playground one and a time. Run each example and see what you get? Can you fix the code so that you do not get an error? 

**NOTE**: _Some words are protected and we cannot use these words as variable names. These words include type, string, int, var, func,_ etc. _These words have special meaning in Go and for the Go [compiler](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compiler). When picking a variable name you can use the protected words as part for the name, `MyString` or `stringText` but can not be used alone._

## More Types

Now it's time to talk about the types unique to Go. All the things we cover in this next section can be found on the [Tour of Go](https://tour.golang.org/moretypes/1) example site. This site has editable code and is a great resource for experimenting with these types. I will not go into all possible uses, because it can be a little overwhelming at first. It's best to learn over time.

## Groups of Types

There are lot of times where you want to group many variables together. Sometimes you want to group variables of the same type and other times you may have different types grouped together. As you continue on you journey programming in Go, you will discover many uses of all of these variables.

### Structs

A `struct` is one of the most powerful types in Go. A `struct` is used to group related variables of any type together. For example, if we want to store contact information for a person, we can make a _Person_ `struct` with relevant information. When we define a `struct`, we need to define the types that are grouped together as well as the name.

```go 
type Person struct {
Name string
Age int
PhoneNumber string
isFamily bool
}
```

When we assign values to a `struct` we will need to first create a value for the `struct`. As we continue to assign values to the inner variables, we don't use the `=`, but instead we used the `:` to allocate the value. Here is the above `struct` but with assigned variables.

```go
person := Person{
Name : "Brandon",
Age : 45,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-0009",
isFamily: true,
}
```

We can also assign the fields one at a time like this:

```go
person := Person{}

person.Name = "Brandon"
person.Age = 45
person.PhoneNumber = "801-555-0009"
person.isFamily = true

```

There are a couple things to notice in the above example. First, we define the variable `person` as an empty `_Person{}_` `struct`. Second, when defining a `struct` value we use the `{variable}.{Value}` notation. We use the same notation when we want to access the values saved to that inner variable. 

### Slices and Arrays

The concept of a `slice` or an `array` is not unique to Go and is present in most if not all programming languages. It is the standard infrastructure for storing and manipulating lists. A `slice` or an `array` can only be a list of a single type. An `array` is a list with a hardcoded length. The position of a variable in an `array` is its `index`. In Go, the first position is 0. This means if you make an `array` of `names` that is going to store 3 names in it, the `names` will be stored in position 0, 1, and 2. 

`Slices`, are like `arrays`, but they are of variable length. That means if you start with 3 names and need to add 3 more, you can just tack them on the end of your `slice` instead of defining a whole new variable. 

Here are some examples:

#### Arrays

````go

var names [3]string{}
names[0] = "Becca"
names[1] = "Kiely"
names[2] = "Haley"

scores := [5]int{90, 10, 3, 4, 6}
````

#### Slices

````go
var names [3]string
names = {"Becca", "Kiely", "Haley"}

scores := int{90, 10, 3, 4, 6}

people := []Person{
{
Name : "Brandon",
Age : 45,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-0009",
isFamily: true,
},
{
Name : "Jeffery",
Age : 39,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-0098",
isFamily: false,
},
{
Name : "Louise",
Age : 1,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-1234",
isFamily: true,
},
}
````

### Maps

Maps are the most complicated types we are going to touch in this section. When you are just starting out, Maps are hard. We will tread lightly now and revisit them once we have more code under our belt. 

To put it simply, a Map is a structure for managing lists that uses `key` to sort items instead of putting them in order. Here is our list of `Persons` as a Map.

```go
people := map[string]Person{
"Brandon":{
Name : "Brandon",
Age : 45,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-0009",
isFamily: true,
},
"Jefferey":{
Name : "Jeffery",
Age : 39,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-0098",
isFamily: false,
},
"Louise":{
Name : "Louise",
Age : 1,
PhoneNumber: "801-555-1234",
isFamily: true,
},
}
```


### Things Not Covered Here

There are additional types and typing methods not described in this tutorial. They are not needed for basic programs. Here is a list of some things that are very useful but not included: 
- Pointers
- Interfaces
- Reflection
- Custom Types
- Channels

Feel free to google these and explore experiment with them in your test programs. 

## Additional Resources:

- [All Types of Golang Types](https://youtu.be/1RYYsLy9bg8)

For more practice with types, you can check out the following:

[Tour of Go](https://tour.golang.org/basics/8)

### Next Lesson

[Continue](/part_1/1.2_functions.md)
