# Introduction to the Terminal

## What is Unix

Windows has a number of options for utilizing bash, which is normally a Linux command line environment. We will cover a few of them and expect you to simply remember that when we say to go to the CLI or run something "in bash," that we mean open your chosen bash environment.

We discuss some options from simplest to most complex. Be prepared to read documentation, not because we're too lazy to show you exactly how to install everything, but because of a very important lesson you should learn early in your journey: using a computer effectively requires reading and understanding new things, and programming is no different. This is a lot like learning how to do maintenance on your house or unclog your kitchen sink, and it's fun and healthy to work through.

Don't worry, there's lots of information out there to work through this comfortably.
#### git-bash
The simplest and thus recommended for newcomers option is to install git-bash, which will come with Git as well (see next steps). You can go [here](https://git-scm.com/downloads) to download Git for windows and choose the "git-bash" option when running the installer.

#### cmder
A more complicated but still useful option for getting into command line is [cmder](https://cmder.net) which is a powerful command line environment. If you download the "Full" installation it will have everything you need, including git (see next steps) if you prefer that version. By default it starts with a windows command terminal, but you can open a bash terminal tab or configure the default behavior to start with bash as well.

#### Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)
This is not for the faint of heart, as it is both the most complicated and the most powerful, but eventually most Windows developers working with Go will end up here. Don't jump ahead if you're new to deep Windows system administration. Assuming you are on Windows 10 and can update to the latest version as of early 2021, you can use what's called WSL2 if you are googling for information. This allows you to run a full Linux installation with a separate filesystem that integrates well with a lot of tooling like Visual Studio Code.

We'll leave installation instructions as an exercise for you, since you will need the skills to find that information if you're going to be successufl in running WSL2 anyway.
### Linux

### MacOS
I recommend downloading iTerm2

## Windows

## Introduction to Bash and the .bashrc

### aliases

## Commands
* cd
* pwd
* echo
* cp
* mv
* ls
* mkdir
* | grep

## Writing a bash script

## Additionals Resources
*

[Next Section](/part_2/2.2_git.md)
